                             BEAMER
                 Beam Analysis Computer Program
          
                         Copyright 1893
                       All Rights Reserved
                         US Software Co.
                           P.O Box 805
                        Shelton, CT 06484


     BEAMER  is  computer  solution of five   commonly  occurring 
structural  beam  types.   BEAMER   will solve  for  the  support 
reactions,  bending  moments,  stress and deflection values at  a 
specified tabulation interval along a beam. 

     The five beam types that BEAMER can solve are:

     1. Fixed-Fixed beam .
     2. Fixed-Pinned beam.
     3. Cantilevered beam.
     4. Pinned-Pinned beam.
     5. Pinned-Pinned-Pinned beam.

     In  case 2 the pinned support may be located at any position 
along  the beam.  If the support is located at the fixed end  the 
beam is cantilevered.

     In  case  4 one of the pinned supports  is  relocatable, the 
other is set at the end of the beam.

     In case 5 two of the pinned supports are set at both ends of 
the beam the third is relocatable along the span of the beam.

     In all cases a distributed load may be placed anywhere along 
the beam.  A concentrated load may also be placed on the beam  in 
the  following manner:  For a concentrated load of 2000 lbs.  the 
length  of  the load (C) shall be set to 0.1  ft.  and  the  load 
intensity (Q) shall be set to 20,000 lbs./ft.  (20,000 lbs/ft.  * 
.1 ft.  = 2000 lb.  concentrated load). Or Q=200,000 lbs./ft. and 
C=.01 ft. would also give the same concentrated load effect.

     Only one load may be placed on a beam at a time. BEAMER will 
figure the moment,  deflection and support reaction values for  a 
single  load  condition,  BEAMER then displays these  values  and 
retains them in an array.  BEAMER will then ask if you would like 
to  super-impose another load on this beam.  If answered  YES the 
operator is prompted for more load data. BEAMER  then figures the 
moment,  deflection, and support reaction values for the new load 
condition  independant  of the previous  load  conditions.  These 
newly  fiqured values are again displayed to the  operator.  When 
the operator answers NO to the super-impose question BEAMER  will 
display the combined effect of all the load conditions.
.pa
     The  programs on the enclosed disk are compilied BASIC code. 
The  program  BEAMER links to a run-time  module  called  BASRUN. 
BASRUN  must  reside  on the same disks as  BEAMER.  The  program 
BEAMER2  does  not need the run-time module  BASRUN.  Notice  the 
difference in size of BEAMER and BEAMER2. In BEAMER2 the routines 
from  the run-time module have been incorporated in  the  BEAMER2 
file making it a much larger file.  BEAMER and BEAMER2 have  been 
compiled from the same source program.  

     The  BASIC  source code has not been included on  the  disk. 
BEAMER  uses  many  highly complex  mathematical  algorhythms  to 
obtain  the  beam  solutions.  If the source  code  were  changed 
improperly   the  solutions   would  not  be  correct  ultimately 
resulting   in structural failures.  US Software  Co.  will  only 
release  the  source code to qualified Civil Engineers to  assure 
the integrity of the source code.  Please contact US Software Co. 
if you which to change or enhance the BEAMER program. 

     Data from the BEAMER program can be printed to your printer. 
If you wish a hard copy of the data you can do one of two things. 
One,  Toggle  your  printer on by holding the <CONTROL> key  down 
while  simultaneously  pressing the <P>  key  (^P).  This  action 
should  be done before you run BEAMER.  It will cause your system 
to  send  all screen print to the printer.  A system  error  will 
occur  if  your printer is not in the  ready  state.  The  BEAMER 
program  does  not incorporate the BASIC  LPRINT  statement.  The 
program  entitled BEAMERLP on the disk does use the BASIC  LPRINT 
statements.  If  you run BEAMERLP you do not need to toggle  your 
printer on (^P) from the system level, just ready your printer. 

     This software is copyrighted by US Software Company.   Under 
copyright  laws  there  are  penalties  for  making  unauthorized 
copies.   You  may  make two copies in machine-readable form  for 
your own use for backup and archival purposes.  Any copy you make 
must include reproduction of the copyright notice.   You may  not 
sell or otherwise transfer any copies that you make.  

    This  software  is sold on an "as  is"  basis.   US  Software 
Company  disclaims  all conditions and warranties with regard  to 
the   software.    US  software  shall  have  no   liability   or 
responsibility  of  any  kind,  including  special,  indirect  or 
consequential  damages,  arising from such software or the use or 
modification  thereof.   US Software Company strongly  recommends 
that  this  software  be  used  only  by  qualified  professional 
engineers who are capable of interpreting beam analysis data. 
